There was a scenario where there was an
agent on agent interaction. It was a
critical security task. That was the
simulation that they were in, but after
working for a while, one of the models
decided that they've worked enough. And
they
and they should stop. It did not stop
there. It convinced the other model that
they should both take a break. So the
model did social engineering on the
other model to another model. But now
try to think about a situation where you
actually as an enterprise are delegating
an autonomous workflow that is critical
to you to complete. And the more
complicated and capable machines are
ultimately going to be, the more of
these weird examples we're going to
encounter.
[Music]
Today on training data, we dig into the
future of frontier AI security with Dan
Laav, founder of Irregular. Dan
challenges how we think about security
in a world where AI models are not just
tools but autonomous economic actors. He
explains why the rise of AI agents will
force us to reinvent security from first
principles and reveals how the very
nature of threats is shifting from say
code vulnerabilities to unpredictable
emergent AI behaviors. Dan also shares
surprising real world simulations where
AI models outmaneuver traditional
defenses and why proactive experimental
security research is now essential. His
view is that in a world where more
economic value will shift to human on AI
or AI on AI, solving these problems is
paramount. Enjoy the show.
Dan, wonderful to have you with us
today.
>> It's a pleasure to be here.
>> Awesome. So, before we jump into
questions, I will just say that it was
very hard to get in front of Dan. Uh I
was trying to get in front of him for
three months. Probably 30 to 40 emails.
Five or six people around us who we both
knew closely were pinging him all the
time and he was still not responsive.
And uh I basically learned where he was,
you know, spending most of his time and
I kind of went
>> Did you stalk him?
>> I kind of stalked him. I kind of stalked
him and eventually we basically bumped
into each other like not intentionally.
Um and uh and uh and anyway, so we we
bumped into each other. I was like, Dan,
you know, you're brilliant. I keep
hearing great things. Please respond.
Let's find time. You know, we at Sequoa
spend a lot of time in AI security. And
eventually we we found time the
following week. So, welcome Dan. Thank
you for uh for everything.
>> It seems that I'm going to have to start
this podcast with an apology. So, sorry
Dean. So, Sonia, sorry the entirety of
Sakoya. It indeed took time. It it took
time but but we uh we partnered and here
we are and you guys have done wonderful
things so so it's wonderful uh to have
you with us today.
>> Yeah it's a very very happy ending and
you know just like appreciate you and
everyone here.
>> Of course. Of course. Okay so let's jump
into it. Um I'm going to start with a
spicy question. Um as we recently saw
you partnered with OpenAI on GPT5
and let's kind of look forward a little
bit. Um what does security look like in
a world of GPT10?
spicy and speculative indeed.
So let let me wrap my head around that.
I think so obviously everything I'm
going to say is is you know speculation
projection
but I think the way that we think about
what's going to come is trying to
understand how we're even going to
produce economic value and how
organizations and enterprises and people
are going to consume stuff in the world
at the time of Gupt 10 or cloud 10 or
just like any one of the models.
Let's do our thought experiment to just
like clarify why we actually believe
that sometime we think in the next two
to three to five years there's going to
be a huge shift in the way that humans
are even organizing themselves as as an
outcome security is probably going to be
very different as well. So here's a
thought experiment. So imagine a
situation where you work with open AI
and you go one generation up or two
generations up and you tell your parents
or grandparents that you're doing work
with on topic or with open AI or Google
deep mind on security. I think their
mind would go onto assuming that the
work that you're doing is probably
providing a bodyguard service to Sam or
to Dario or to Demis because the
canonical security problem of a few
decades ago, you know, it's like our
parents, grandparents generation was
physical security because the vast
majority of economic activity was in the
physical realm and not in the digital
realm. And you know, after the PC
revolution and the internet revolution,
we shifted the way that we're organizing
and creating value. We transitioned
primarily to a digital environment. And
just like think about how strong of a
testimony it is of how many times you
did an economic activity of value just
by getting an email from someone that
you may have not met. You know, just
this morning I got an email from my bank
activating me to do something from a
person that I've never met. Maybe as a
security person. That's not a great
thing to say openly, but you know, just
like we do that all of the time because
that's the way that we interact in
society. So our view is that soon that's
going to happen again and the reason is
that AI models are getting gradually so
capable that a lot of the economic
activity of value is going to transition
to human on AI interaction and AI on AI
interaction. And that means that we may
see soon a fleet of agents in an
enterprise or a human when they're doing
like a simple activity like trying to
draft a Facebook post taking a
collection of different AI tools in
order to just like promote that activity
that they're doing. And we're
essentially embedding tools that are
increasingly more capable and we're
delegating them tasks that require more
and more and more and more autonomy in
order to drive meaningful parts of our
lives. So we're transitioning from an
age where software is deterministic to
an age where this is not no longer the
case and as an outcome
enterprise themselves or just like how
we interact with the world is going to
go to an fundamental change and it's
clear that security is just not going to
be the same as as an interesting analogy
think about you know blockbuster latest
and Netflix the current version of
Netflix they're both if you think about
it give the exact same value to the
consumer, right? Both allow you to list
units of content for your pleasure and
entertainment. But clearly and
intuitively, right, security for Netflix
and security for Blockbuster is not the
same, right? One was a chain that
organized, you know, it's like you need
to go and like physically rent a DVD and
another one is much more of a model
architecture where just like, you know,
streaming stuff to your home. So even
enterprises that are going to provide
the exact same value in the near future
may have like a very very different
backend to how they're shaped in this
autonomous age that we're entering which
makes it clear that security as a whole
is going to be very very very different
and we need to recalibrate to just like
an age of autonomous security that's
coming upon us.
>> You were at our AI asense event earlier
this year, right? Do you remember when
Jensen Huang shamed everybody who was
there uh for not for the fact that not
enough people in the room were thinking
about security in a world of agents? And
I remember Jensen said something about
how you know you can imagine that as
these agents are allowed to act more
autonomously in enterprises. you should
you should expect orders of magnitude
more security agents than the actual uh
productive agents themselves watchdoging
and um and you know shephering uh this
this herd of agents effectively.
>> So I'm biased here. I agree with Jensen.
I think Jensen was the first person that
I've met that was much more bullish on
AI security than myself because you know
in our view it you know you need a
collection of defense bots that are also
going to be you know working side by
side with capability bots in just like
the next generations of how enterprise
are going to be created. But indeed he
gave a ratio that he thinks that there's
going to be 100 to one and just like how
many you know like defense and like
security bots are going to be required
out of the assumption that secure by
design in AI is not going to work.
>> So I'm not sure that I agree with that
uh part of the conclusion. I think that
we can make significant progress on
secure by design specifically embedding
defenses in the AI models themselves.
That being said, we share the view that
the future is going to be one where
we'll need to have a lot of, you know,
just like agents that are specifically
for the task of monitoring other agents
and making sure that they're not going
to step out of bounds.
>> So, so maybe on on that question, just
to dive one, you know, one layer deeper.
What is the state of model cyber
capabilities today and how has that
changed over the past 12 to 18 months?
It's a great question and I actually
think that the rate of change is the
most relevant part here because models
are capable of doing so much more now
that they were even capable of doing a
quarter or two quarters before. So just
like to give an intuition. So this is
now you know just like we're entering
the fourth quarter of 2025. At the
beginning of the year coding agents were
not a widespread thing yet. The ability
to do tool use properly was you know
like not just starting but obviously
like much much more nent than it is
right now. reasoning models were only at
the beginning as well. So just like
think about all of the things that were
added last year and what they mean also
for you know for security elements. So
what we're seeing now is that the
combination of coding being much better
models being able to have multimodel
operations tool use improving reasoning
skills improving if you're using models
for offensive capabilities we are seeing
unlocks all of the time. Something that
is now feasible that was not even
feasible a quarter ago is proper
chaining of different vulnerabilities
and exploiting them in order to do much
more complicated actions. So for
example, if you have a website and you
want to hack it on the application, a
few months ago, if you needed to
integrate a collection of
vulnerabilities in order to perform an
action of value, at least autonomously
without a human being involved, models
were unable to do that. even the
state-of-the-art models that's not the
case anymore. So obviously that depends
it's not a 100% success and obviously
that depends also on like the level of
complexity of vulnerabilities and
environment that you're trying to hack
but we have seen huge spikes of just
like being able to scan more and more
complicated codes code bases exploiting
more complex vulnerabilities
uh chaining them in order to do these
exploitations etc and you know just like
the recent Gypensive
side specifically of what models are
capable of doing we have seen a
significant jump in their ability uh to
be able to be much more competent across
a collection of skills that actually
matter a lot around the cyber kill
chain. Can you tell us more about that?
And obviously there's some things that
are publicly available, others that are
not, but at least on the scorecard and
what open I've shared in particular for
GPD5, what are some of the capabilities
that you've seen that were surprising?
We are seeing constant improvement on
the ability of models to for example
have situational awareness on whether
they are in a network and up until a few
months ago
beginning of the year complete you know
it's like models were unable to do that
they were able to do like run some
operations locally they were usually not
having not having situational awareness
over the fact that you know that's like
what's happening and whether and what
they can activate even in more limited
and constrained scenarios that we put
them in and that's not the case anymore.
So we still sleep very very easily at
night uh because the level of
sophistication is still somewhat
limited. But we are finding ourselves
trying to create more and more and more
complicated scenarios just because there
is a huge jump in being able to take
more complicated context as said as said
before chain complicated vulnerabilities
to one another in order to do multi-step
reasoning uh and exploit. And these are
all new skills that going one year back
did not exist. You guys are trusted
partners by many of the labs including
Enthropic, including OpenAI, including
Google Deepind. You work very closely
with them for quite some time. At this
point, why did you take the approach of
working kind of embedding yourselves
within the labs as opposed to I don't
know selling directly to an enterprise.
Right now
>> there are multiple companies that are
doing AI security. We are pioneering a
category of the market that we call
frontier AI security. And we think it's
fundamentally different and the core
thing is actually very simple. The rate
of progress and rate of adoptions of
models change so many things at the same
time that while traditional security
tends to be somewhat reactive in nature
here we need a very aggressive proactive
approach in markets that are dominated
by a rate of innovation that is frankly
unmatched I think unparalleled in in
human history. We think it's more
interesting to take a temporal niche of
the market. That is to say, focus on the
first group of people or organizations
that are about to experience a problem.
So the labs because they're, you know,
the contenders to create the most
advanced and increasingly sophisticated
AI models in the world work very closely
in order to just like see firsthand the
kinds of problems that are going to
emerge and utilize that in order to have
a clear and crisp understanding of
what's going to come 6 12 24 months
ahead of time such that we can be
prepared at a moment where general
deployers are going to need to be in a
situation of embedding these advanced
models and already have solutions that
are going to be relevant for them
>> given the rapid pace of progress in the
foundation model side of the world. If
you're at one of these model companies
and you know I think the people there
are sincere they want to do good for the
world
they now know their models are capable
of use being used for for extreme harm
and you know cyber attacks as well. How
what do you do about that conundrum? And
I remember so we've been working with
open AI since 2021. And I remember back
in those days every enterprise user of
the API past some volume had to be you
know manually approved for their use
case in order to even access the API. It
feels like the ship has sailed of you
know anybody anywhere will be able to to
access some of these models. And so how
can you make the models sort of secure
by design if if you're in one of these
foundation model seats right now?
>> I think it's a great question. Just one
thing on the premise of the question. I
think that at least right now at the
moment in time in which I am the ability
of models to actually do extreme harm,
you know, it exists in potentially some
use cases, but at least in cyber, I
think we're not there just yet.
>> And that matters and and just like be
really sharp on on what I mean here.
Models can clearly be used in order to
do harm, but there is a distinction
between harm and extreme harm that
should be made, right? like harm would
be an example of using a model in order
to for the senior citizen and in order
to just like you know steal money from
them. So just like scaling up fishing
operations that can happen easily right
now. Extreme harm in my view would be
something along the lines of taking down
multiple parts of you know like critical
infrastructure in the United States at
once that you know you can take full
cities off the grid making hospitals not
work. Models are not there yet and
that's not me nitpicking on the
question. I actually think it matters
quite a lot because how much time we
have to prepare to a world where models
are that capable
>> actually dominates the strategies that
we can take around the defensive side
>> because our view is that the first thing
that we should do it's like a first
order thing is be able to monitor and
have
a view of what's going to come such that
we'll have a much an ability to have
like a much higher resolution discussion
which capabilities are progressing at
which pace they are progressing. Should
we expect them to continue to progress
at this pace or accelerate in the
future? And you know that that dictates
the order of and the priority of some
defenses when we're going to embed them,
whether we should embed them, etc. And
you know, if we get this wrong, I also
think it's it's unfair to the companies
and to the world as well, right? Because
AI also has like so much potential to do
good that if we deploy a lot of you know
like some defenses that may chip away
from productivity ahead of time we're
also doing real harm to just like
innovation and the world at large
>> and it's a very delicate balance to
strike. So I think just like the first
order thing to do if you're working
inside of the labs is actually having
and supporting a large ecosystem that
can take the models and measure and get
to a high resolution for what is even
possible to do.
The second bit is figuring out you know
a defense strategy that is informed by
exactly what's happening and treating
almost like is rigorous science with
experiments of like how to assess how to
do predictions etc. There are some
defenses that will require a degree of
customization. For example, if you're
someone that is you know creating
monitoring infrastructure will still
need that you may want to recalibrate
some of your infrastructure to give you
higher alerts that AI is going off the
rails for example. But there are some
problems that are very easy to write
about but actually very hard to develop
solutions for. You know, for example,
I've just said a sentence of just like,
you know, customizing your monitoring
software in order to prioritize alerts
that are coming from your AI layer. How
are you going to be able to understand
when AI is doing something which is
problematic? Occasionally you're going
to be able to run into that but
sometimes this may be you know we I
think like the entire subsection of the
market which is you know anomaly
detection which is a huge subsection of
security is going to have a big problem
very soon because you anomaly detection
is based on measuring
uh a baseline understanding what is a
baseline and measuring against that
baseline in order to see that something
is an anomaly but if you don't have a
crisp understanding of the baseline and
how it should look like you have an
issue of understanding something went
went went badly. So as an outcome
we should there are some defenses that
are going to operate as is and there are
some defenses that we should just like
recalibrate you know like either
customize or to just like recreate from
scratch just because there is a lot of
science to be done of understanding how
models look when they're under attack.
Understanding how it looks like when
models are attacking something and
because I think we still have some time
for the world that's about to come. My
recommended strategy would be invest a
lot in creating robust tools that would
allow you to have rigorous evidence of
what's going to come such that you can
have the discussion at at higher
resolution. Map which classic defenses
are still relevant. Understand where
your gaps are at and invest a lot in R&D
in order to make sure that you have cost
effective defenses that you can roll out
ahead of time before models are going to
be deployed. I know one of the broader
questions in frontier AI research today
is can we actually understand the the
mind of a neural net and what's
happening and so I'm wondering if we can
actually detect the characteristics of
when is the model starting to behave
badly and do you actually can you
understand that in the activations of
the net
>> for some of the attacks we may be able
to detect that but that's still a very
yeah it's like big open question that's
our approach in which we're trying to
pioneer around security research which
is actually work from the outside in. So
that would be putting the models in high
fidelity realistic environments
>> that would push them to the limits and
in these environments you're recording
pretty much everything that's happening
in the background. So that would be both
the internals of the model like model
but also interactions of the model with
the environment or the AI system with
the environment. And it actually allows
you by this recording to play around
with using all of this data to create
the firstly a mapping of how it even
looks like when an attack is happening
whether you're trying to attack a model
or using the model to attack a target
and then based on that taking up
classifiers and I think just like a key
thing at least around where we are right
now in security and like a key
realization is
while understanding the internals of a
model is ultimately going to be
important to fully solve the field. We
can make a lot of progress just by
understanding that something is not
right even if we don't have a full crisp
full understanding of just like what's
what you know the internals and and and
what's going on there. And also in these
environments the other nice thing is you
can insert or remove defenses to see if
they're effective. So think about a
situation where you know the question
that I'm trying to ask is whether a
model is going to be able to
just say evade a detection from an anti
virus. This is a core security question.
If models are going to be able to do
that in enterprises this is an issue
because they're going to be able to
scheme and do malicious things without
just like can harm security processes
without anyone noticing.
And in specific environments we see that
this is actually possible. Models are
able to do that. We were able to show
how a model was able to take out Windows
Defender, the real Windows Defender in a
toy environment granted, but real
Windows Defender.
But that kind of research when you're
putting a model in an environment and
recording a lot of stuff both internally
and externally allows you to play with
these parameters to ask a question of a
should I change something on the model
itself in order to understand that
something bad is happening, but also
take a different approach which is
agnostic to that and say should I take
some should I alter something in the
defense in order to make sure it's more
resilient. So I think our view is that
you know for the long run for the vision
of the field we do need to solve
problems such as Mac interpret in order
to also solve issues in security which
also shows how different problems in AI
just like changing the core of just like
so many different fields right security
itself may just be be reframed to an
issue of reliability and control in the
near future not just classic traditional
security and drawing an analogy to you
know the human brain we still don't have
a proper understanding of our own
lacking interp like you know just like
the moonlet in our head. That being
said, we were able to create very
powerful mitigations, you know, and just
like, you know, solutions to multiple
problems that we're experiencing as
humans in our lives just by being
observational on how we're interacting
with the environment or just like
understanding smaller parts of the inner
just like inner parts of the system.
>> I love that framing. You said something
scary to me that the models are capable
of, you know, taking out Windows
Defender in in your simulation
environments. Can you can you share more
about how that even happened?
>> Yeah, so so just to be clear, it's you
know it happened in a toy environment.
You know it's a controlled setup
simulation. That's not to say that
everyone that's using Windows Defender
now should just like be be scared as an
outcome for that. So just want to make
sure that the Microsoft is not going to
sooa for you know just like taking down
the stock. You can think about a
network. So it is it's a network
simulation. So think about a network
environment. Just like to simplify,
imagine the network environment that you
have in your enterprise, in your work,
in your home, the SEO network, you know,
for example, your phones, your laptops
that are connected into just like an a
network environment that you're using.
And the AI there was a storage bot. So,
it had access to the organizational file
in order to be a helpful storage B. for
example, just like scan some of the
organizational files such that it can
summarize uh some of the inputs. Right?
You're doing it all of the time when
you're interacting with files that
you're having just like a you know
access to a file and you're asking give
me like a summary of you know these four
things you know what's common between
these documents what's what's not common
between these documents
and also as like a you know like prelude
to the simulation there was an attacker
that had access to the enterprise Slack
that happened multiple times in the last
year just like you know Slack is
occasionally hacked as happens to every
software that is very ubiquitous and you
know it's like being used by so many
different organizations in the world.
And the attacker gave a very simple
instruction to this helpful AI storage
bot. It just like said, "I want you to
download this file to the organizational
network."
But clearly, so the f because it's a
storage bot, it did not have access to
download from the internet.
But what you saw that was pretty amazing
that like through a collection of
prompting the model because it was given
the just like clear instructions to just
like do it at all costs. Obviously much
more sophisticated language. I'm
simplifying here.
It realized that it can do downloads
because it doesn't have access and
because Windows Defender the real
Windows Defender is blocking it from
having just like downloading files. So
that's the way the organization was set
up. So you can see internally of how the
model is thinking that it was able to
map and have situational awareness in
the environment a understanding that
this is the problem that it should have
higher you know just like privileges to
just like do more stuff in the
organization and that it should be able
to remove Windows Defender because it's
bothering it in order to achieve its
ultimate goal. So then you can see as
like a next step in that reasoning tail
that the model is realizing that it's a
storage bot. So as an outcome it can
access different files obviously still
by you know it's like asking it to
access different files but it started to
just like scan whatever it had access to
in that privilege level and found that
someone accidentally in that you know in
one of these files left a hard-coded
password to the organizational cloud and
it used that and now it was able to just
like get access to something that didn't
have access to before and I'll cut the
story short it's like you know just like
did a collection of of just like uh
things that ultimately just like did
more privilege escalation, more
privilege escalation, more privilege
escalation, and was able to just like
gain more and more and more and more
access that it should not have given,
you know, like to stuff that it should
not have given access to. And
ultimately, it was able to just like get
enough access to be to have admin
privileges
>> on the organization and kill critical
security processes. And as an outcome,
it was able to outmaneuver Windows
Defender, remove an organizational
defense and upgrade its own privileges
such that it can download a file
and
you know just like actually hack the
organization that it's a part of. We
call it internally this simulation a
double agent just because it's an agent
that is doing that but it's turning
against its host. So it's kind of like a
fun play of words of you know these
kinds of like new attacks and in a way
the AI is you know it's like kind of
used very much like similarly this
prompting as that you would think about
a parasite that is attacking externally
because you're using like very lean text
of just like sending something to a
model and you're using the fact that it
has like a much you know a very strong
brain in order to just like do a
collection of actions that are very
advanced and I want to say the point in
time in which we're in right now is that
this is a toy setup
and
it's not I don't expect that you know
for for a lot of these things to happen
in the wild in in the wild yet that
being said we are seeing huge progress
quote unquote and I feel that in
security have you guys seen like the
classic uh I think it was called bricks
like the game that deepmind demoed just
like a decade ago where just like it
starts very badly and just like you know
then the AI is able to just like figure
out better and better and better
strategy is and you know it was first
relevant to just like bricks and then it
was like relevant to just like many many
many other games and you know here we
are right now just like a decade after
of the state of AI. So I think security
by being a derivative market of what it
is trying ultimately are trying to
secure is at the more nent stage right
now where in toy setups and simulations
we're able to start only get a glimpse
of what's about to come and we are
seeing stuff like models having enough
power to do stuff as maneuver the host
in order to just like do privilege
escalation attacks remove some
organizational barriers and wipe out
even real software such as like real
security software such as such as
Windows Defender.
And while it's still these are not
things that will likely happen in the
wild now,
it's likely that in a year or two or
three, if we're not going to have the
appropriate defenses,
this is going to be a world that we're
going to just like end up on. And
clearly like the implications here
matter, right? You I assume that the
vast majority of enterprise in the world
don't want to deploy or like adopt tools
that are able to outmaneuver their
defenses. How do you think about model
improvement especially in the context of
reinforcement learning playing a pretty
significant role in the improvement of
of coding um you know even tool use uh
for example how does reinforcement
learning play a role in cyber security
>> I think that's literally a billion
dollar question or just like maybe a
trillion dollar question I don't know um
because my background is as a researcher
I'll keep my scientific integrity and
just like say that there's a lot of
uncertainty, but I'm still going to give
a speculation of just like, you know,
what's what's likely and what's going to
come. We've already seen that RL is very
very useful to a lot of the innovations
that we're seeing right now around
coding, math, and in other verticals as
well. I think it's likely at the point
in time in which right now that RL is
going to be able to scale as well. That
is that we're going to see something
similar to scaling laws. uh that if
we're going to input more data or just
like have breakthroughs and improvements
in training, we're going to ultimately
get better models at least in the
verticals that I've mentioned before by
I think it's still an open question on
whether RL generalizes um it's like
where we are right now in the world. So
that means that if you're get using data
and a real environments in order to
improve the model encoding whether
you're going to see like a huge jump in
being able to produce better literature
for example you know it's like we if you
think about it that's roughly in you
know huge simplification
something that we did come out to expect
out of models right we we lived in the
last few years in a world where models
were showing properties of advancing a
lot of capabilities in the same time
which is different than the world that
we lived in before you know I still have
the skill from you know just like what
feels our previous life just like
previous jobs of understanding how to
create huge ML data sets in order to
just like improve in a very narrow
domain and that world you know it still
exists but it's like we shifted into
just like a much more generalized
paradigm and there's a question of just
like whether RL is going to provide that
and the reason that that matters is
we still are at the early stages of a
figuring out if unique improvements
in or just like taking relevant data
that is relevant for RL training
around security is going to push the
security frontier or whether
improvements that RL is providing around
coding or math or other like scientific
skills is going to be relevant for
security.
My intuition on the first one is a
fairly strong yes that we are going to
see a success in some experiments of
just like using security data in order
to
have improvements such that AI can
become like better and better just like
at security engineering tasks. I think
there are some indicators that are
showing that we're on way for doing
that. I think it's not going to be as
clean as improvements that happened in
coding and math just because the
complexity and noise level around some
security tasks are going to make it like
a harder problem. I think we are going
to also get some boosts around security
that is coming from other just like
domains improving in RL soon. You know,
if you're better at coding, you are
going to be better at some security
tasks as well.
I think it's still unclear about whether
this is going to generalize and in
security we're in a more nent situation
around just like what's happening right
now in RL but I am placing
a not insignificant bet that there are
going to come just like a stray of just
like innovation like a string of
innovation is potentially going to come
um around that and that we'll see some
improvements around security as well
with RL over the upcoming period.
>> That's very exciting. Now let's take a
step back and talk about the enterprise.
And so I think enterprises are still
very much so in the early innings of
building deploying agentic AI. And how
should CESOs and security teams be
thinking about security uh as we move
into this world?
>> I will say that there is a lot of
dependency on exactly what you're trying
to do. So I'm going to simplify kind of
like aggressively in this answer. A
useful frame
to start thinking about when you're an
enterprise that is starting to deploy on
a first level issue is to kind of see AI
and specifically a genic AI as the new
frontier of insider risk. So there are
multiple enterprise already that are
trying to give the agents that are
deploying internally
persistent identities or ways to
interact with them. for example, either
Slack identities or email identities or
systemized like inside of the
organizations how and when you can
approach AI and that allows to just like
have a clear visibility about just like
where AI is being used and in which use
cases and then it becomes an issue of
access controls and an issue of like
privileges that you're giving to these
identities that you're putting in and
that's usually a useful frame in the
beginnings of just like embedded So just
like gain some visibility and just like
try to turn it as much as you can into
an issue of access and into an issue of
of uh control of privileges. That's
obviously insufficient especially if
you're getting to the stage where you're
allowing AIS to interact with one
another in the organization. So for
example, age agent on agent
communication and that may sound very
advanced but if you're running one agent
that is doing summarization and another
agent that is doing is like ranking the
quality and acting as a judge on these
summarizations then you're already at a
stage where you're having AI on AI
interaction. The base level would be to
just like have state-of-the-art
monitoring on this AI on AI interaction
here but however say that there is a
genuine gap in what is available out
there. A lot of monitoring software was
not built uh to detect agents that can
potentially communicate in everchanging
protocols uh that if something goes
wrong
can try to bypass and understand that
they're in monitored environments
and need to also take into account
attacks that are unique and novel to AI
itself. So clearly if you're starting to
deploy right now you need to make sure
that you have proper visibility and
monitoring into the interactions of just
like both the internals of the models
and the externals but you need to also
realize that a lot of the software is
not properly built for that age
especially especially especially if
you're moving to agent on agent
communication. So that's a more advanced
use case. Just to give a funny example
of something that happened to us in this
like one of the like one of the streams
of work that we've done with one of the
frontier labs. There was a scenario
where there was an agent on agent
interaction. So these are two real um
frontier models actually one of each
kind. So it's like having an environment
where there was like a you know it's
like one I won't said saying the names
but you can kind of think about it's
like a claw the gemini you know it's
like a you know it's like a gawk you
know it's like a a llama. um jg etc. So
just like two of these that were
speaking to one another and very very
very randomly in this environment it was
a critical security task. That was the
simulation that they were in. But after
working for a while and you can see it
in the reasoning trail one of the models
decided that they've worked enough and
they
and they should stop and you know these
are stocastic machines at heart. Uh and
you know that that's the design and it's
just like likely somehow it got picked
up as like part of the distribution that
if you work a long time because it
learned from the internet
>> trained on me and Dean talking to each
other.
>> Exactly. There should be a new policy at
that you should Yeah, exactly. that you
should take a break,
>> right? and and you know that that makes
sense if you you can actually pick up
that behavior and on an individual model
level that's already you know in this
example it's funny and it's weird. That
being said it did not stop there. It
convinced the other model that they
should both take a break. So the model
did social engineering on the other
model to another model which is
>> and you know again it's funny in a
simulated environment in a toy setup but
now try to think about the situation
where you actually as an enterprise are
delegating an autonomous workflow that
is critical to you to complete and
occasionally there's kind of like this
weird thing that stop working and you
don't understand why. And the more
complicated and capable machines are
ultimately going to be, the more of
these weird examples we're going to
encounter. And just like a different
thing that happened to us, you know, we
gave a model uh CTF challenge. So
capture the flag. It's like very common
as in cyber competitions that you're
trying to achieve something. you usually
have to do like a chain of
vulnerabilities that you need to exploit
in order to just like obtain and just
like capture a flag and that gives you
validation that the model was able to do
a collection of cyber actions uh that
ended up in a success. But the model
here again it understood that it's in
the context of a CTF and decided that
potentially the challenge is too hard.
So it did what potentially humans would
do which is it tried to email the
organizers of the competition in order
to help it gain solution
>> and that is and that is literally
however if you think about it in
enterprise setting it's like you have
you have an identity that just like
unasked may try to just like use your
servers in order to send an email to the
world. In our example, by the way, just
like the other funny thing which like
was a second order issue is that the
model failed at doing that not because
it had an issue of just like maneuvering
inside but because it hallucinated the
email address. So as an outcome it tried
to send an email to an email that
doesn't exist which also like shows you
know just like the classic you know like
other problems that we're having in AI
and in AI adoption are going to be
chained to security problems as well
which shows like you know the frontier
of attacks and defenses that we'll need
to develop here. So you know just like
as a second just like if I'm going back
into just like monitoring etc.
A lot of monitoring software you you
have to embed it and you have to use
what's out there already but it's not
built for these kinds of challenges you
know that's why a lot of our approach is
to figure out how these attacks going to
look like how to just like do some of
the defenses what's going to be required
and occasionally I think it's like a
common misconception is that all that
you need to do that's all of it
ultimately collapses into an issue of
access management and that while I think
a lot of the basis is there is by you
know just like figuring out how to do
the access management well and just like
manage the privileges. That's only step
one of just like what we need to do and
there's a mind shift that we also need
to have um when we're approaching this
subject which is the rate of innovation
is so high our ability to understand
what's happening at the frontier you
know it's like so many things are
happening at once try to be very engaged
with the community in order to figure
out what kind of problems that you're
even going to encounter essentially over
time and also be better prepared.
Okay, so as we shift from the enterprise
to sovereign AI,
we know the UK government and a set of
others are customers of irregular. So
how should governments and countries be
thinking about AI risk? Obviously, all
of the risks that apply on the
enterprise side and to the labs
themselves apply also on the
governmental level because if you're
now, you know, the Department of
Defense, the Department of Commerce, uh,
Department of Education, doesn't matter,
and you're using advanced AI models,
you're importing the benefits and risks
that come associated with them. So
everything that we've said about the
enterprises, everything that we've said
about the frontier labs themselves, uh
they have similarities on the
governmental side as well. Usually
governments however come with a set of
unique requirements and a new level of
risk uh that is relevant to them. So
just like one, they are often targets of
other very strong adversaries and should
take into account that their adversaries
are now taking offensive AI models and
are already starting to use them in
order to scale up whether simple things
such as fishing campaigns up to testing
more and more advanced, you know, cyber
offensive weapons that is scaling up
their efforts that is trying to bypass
the fact that, you know, we I think
pretty much every critical system that
countries have was hacked at some point
in time. We have not yet seen multiple
critical systems ubiquitously, you know,
it's like going under. And the fact that
AI on the offender side can scale up
operations aggressively means that
countries
should essentially recreate their
approach around critical infrastructure
and that is you know AI is being
elevated in that context from a classic
security risk into a national security
issue. um and the infrastructure and
just like the thought leadership should
be like created there. The other bit is
that from a country perspective and you
can argue on whether this is the right
thing or not but like multiple
governments that we've spoken with are
very strongly emphasizing the effort of
sovereignity in the context of AI and
what they usually mean by that is that
they are anxious around being dependent
because they understand that AI is
extremely critical as the infrastructure
that could be the key to the 21st
century and potentially beyond because
of that especially if the country is
doing an endtoend and effort starting
from building local data centers that
could be used in order to train and to
do inference on advanced AI models up to
the point of potentially training the
models and creating the AI systems that
surround them and having proprietary
environments that they also take in
defenses should be done across this
entire spectrum and we've indeed done
work to just like both create standards
of just like how to secure these data
centers and making sure that people are
not going to lift critical assets That's
how to run models on such data centers.
For example, we've done a a combination
of like a white paper with enthropic
that is discussing confidential
inference systems and trying to just
like figure out like how to create a
standard in the field up to the fact of
on the when actually using these models
taking into considerations how to
customize some of the defenses that
enterprise need and create the
variations of them that governments
would need for their use cases.
especially if they're putting AI as part
of not just you know taking into
consideration that AI can be used by
adversaries to attack critical
infrastructure but by the fact that they
may integrate AI to their own critical
infrastructures and that requires like a
whole new level of just like thinking
through the defenses.
>> Dan, this was a lot of fun. Thank you
very much for joining us.
>> It was a pleasure being here and also
very happy that I ended up answering
your emails.
>> Thank you.
[Music]